[Go back to the main page](../../../README.md)

# _User Experience_ specialism modules

### Virtual Reality

The Virtual Reality (VR) module combines the theory and psychology of VR
with practical development skills. You'll learn the skills needed to
design compelling VR environments and the skills that apply to creative
practice, science and industry. This module gives you the skills needed
to develop VR, including understanding the basic theory of presence in
VR, which underlies the basic design principles. Using a 3D engine to
create interactive virtual environments, you'll also learn practical
development skills, including creating 3D environments, designing and
implementing 3D interaction for VR and building social VR experiences
with interactive virtual characters.

### Advanced Web Development

Advanced Web Development teaches you how to build dynamic, data-driven
websites using databases, front-end frameworks and server-side
programming. You'll develop the skills needed for full stack web
development work and develop a web developer skillset, enabling you
to build and deploy complete, data-driven websites. You'll consider
different technologies for clientside web development such as HTML,
CSS, JavaScript and templates. You'll explore methods for developing
server-side web applications, by building web-accessible wrappers
around databases, consider scalability issues and learn about web app
configuration and deployment.

### Physical Computing and the Internet of Things

Studying this module will introduce the technology involved in the
development and programming of hardware devices that can sense and act
in the environment. It explains and demonstrates how the environment,
which is inherently continuous, can be monitored by analogue electrical
and mechanical sensors, then captured and analysed using a computer,
which is a discrete system. A focus of this module is the interface
between the digital and the analogue. You'll learn basic physics,
electronics, programming and software engineering. The module's
practical objective is the development of the skills needed for
designing and building interactive physical devices.

### Mobile Development

The Mobile Development module aims to give you the fundamental
understanding and skills needed to develop mobile applications. By
studying this module, you will learn the principles of effective mobile
user interface design and how to design and build user interfaces.
You'll learn about datadriven mobile apps, and how you can integrate
an app with a data source. You'll learn about the mobile development
ecosystem and how to develop, run and test your applications. You'll
work with various sensors available on mobile devices using built-in
application programming interfaces. The style of the module is
practical, focusing on developing working apps.

### Interaction Design

In this module, you'll examine the notion of â€˜interaction with
technology'. You will focus on the concepts behind modern UX design
and production and gain a solid grasp and practical experience of
the process which allows the creation of interactive systems. This
process involves specification, design, prototyping and evaluation.
You'll examine several design approaches and techniques and consider
how they enable usability engineering. You'll learn how to evaluate
interactive systems against criteria such as efficiency and usability.
You'll examine accessibility issues from the perspective of different
populations.
